---
title: How to create a website with 11ty
date: 2025-04-12T17:52
subtitle: ...and publish it with GitHub Actions
published: false
lang: en
tags:
    - programming
    - blogging
    - home_lab
---
My current web host sucks! But, I am not really using my website for anything fancy, so I went looking for free hosting instead.

<!-- excerpt -->
[_TOC_]

## Introduction

Lots of options are available, but the approach that appealed to me the most was to generate a website from templates to then host on a static hosting solution (like Jamstack).

This puts some limitations on things, obviously, like you can't easily have user-generated content like forums or guest books on a site that like that. (Third-party sites excluded.) There are workarounds, like "serverless", but I don't need any of that anyway. I can always link to my social media if I want people to harass me there.

For this site, at least, I went with GitHub Pages and 11ty. I could also have used Cloudflare and Jekyll, or any combination of hosting service and software stack. This article is about my experience.

What I really enjoy about what I ended up with is that now that it is set up, I can write posts in Markdown, preview it locally, and when I'm happy with it I can `git push` to main and it is built and published live without me fussing with any CMS platform or old-school FTP. I am at home in text mode and in vim. WordPress isn't my style.

So, where to get started. The easy way is to use a template and just start blogging. I don't do things the easy way. I find I learn more the hard way.

## Quick start

**NOTE**:
I am about to talk about doing things the hard way. If you just want a quick blog set up, skip this article and use one of the [starter projects](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/starter/) from 11ty.

## Creating a work space

```shell
# Create a git repo
git init
# Initialize npm
npm init
# Install modules:
npm install -S 11ty...
```

## Styling

I went simple with this and used [PicoCSS](). It lets me mostly just write semantic HTML and it styles it reasonably well. I tweaked a few things here and there.

## Internationalization (I18n) and Localization (L10n)

- multiple language support
- localizing dates and numbers

## Add bells and whistles

### Language selector

### Theme selector


## Conclusion

For better or worse, you can see the results right on this site.

Was it more work than advertised? A little, but mostly because I want to do things my way.

Worth it? Yes, I think so. I definitively learned something.
